Explain deployment options for kyma functions (#13813)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-serverless/README.md

All of that makes it cumbersome to define the setup by hand. 
The following sections will guide you through the best practices for the Function development. You will find hints that will be helpful for you at any stage of your development journey.

# Use UI to explore

At the beginning of your Kyma journey you will probably want to evaluate Serverless and draft a few Functions.
Kyma Dashboard is perfect to gain basic experience and start the journey with Kyma Functions. Dashboard consists of UI components dedicated to Serverless that will help you draft your first Functions by putting the code directly in the browser using Web IDE.
Kyma Dashboard will also help you expose your Function via HTTP, define environment variables, subscribe to Cloud Events, bind Service Instances and even show you the Function logs - all in single place.

Get started with [Function UI](./svls-01-create-inline-function.md)

![function-ui](./assets/svls-function-ui.png)

# Use Kyma CLI for better development experience

> Defining Function from the UI is very quick and easy but most likely this approach would be not enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. The ability to code your Function from your favorite IDE or being able to run and debug the Function on your local machine before actually deploying in the Kyma runtime - Those aspects may be desired especially if you want to code and test a bit more complex cases. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end having deployable artefacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in a form of a workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy but it might be not enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. The ability to code your Function from your favorite IDE or being able to run and debug the Function on your local machine before actually deploying in the Kyma runtime - Those aspects may be desired especially if you want to code and test more complex cases. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end having deployable artefacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in a form of a workspace. 
```

Initialize a scaffold for a brand new Function using the `kyma init function` command or fetch the current state of an existing Function deployed in your Kyma runtime using `kyma sync function`.
Focus on the Function code and develop it from you favorite IDE. Configure your Functions directly in the [`config.yaml` manifest file](../../05-technical-reference/svls-06-function-configuration-file.md)

> >>NOTE: Use `kyma init function --vscode` to generate json schema which can be used in VScode for autocompletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>NOTE: Use `kyma init function --vscode` to generate json schema which can be used in VSCode for autocompletion.
```

>>

> Kyma CLI helps you run your code locally with a single `kyma run function` command. It runs the Function using your local Docker daemon with the same runtime Docker context as if it was run in the Kyma runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma CLI helps you run your code locally with a single `kyma run function` command. You can run your Function using your local Docker daemon with the same runtime Docker context as if it was run in the Kyma runtime. 
```

>>NOTE: Use `kyma run function` with `--hot-deploy` and spare yourself unnecessary restarts of the Functions whenever you test a changed Function logic. Also, use [`--debug` option](./svls-05-debug-function.md) to allow connecting with your favorite debugger.
>>

![kyma-cli-functions](./assets/svls-kyma-cli-functions.png)

> Having written and tested your Function locally, simply deploy it to the Kyma runtime with the `kyma apply function` command used in the folder of your Function's workspace. It will read the files, translate it to the Kubernetes manifests and deploy the Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having written and tested your Function locally, simply deploy it to the Kyma runtime with the `kyma apply function` command, used in the folder of your Function's workspace. It will read the files, translate it to the Kubernetes manifests and deploy the Function.
```

# Deploy via CI/CD

> Kyma UI helps you getting started. Kyma CLI helps you iterate and develop Functions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma UI helps you get started. Kyma CLI helps you iterate and develop Functions. 
```

> But at the end of the day you may probably want an automated deployment of your Functions. Or rather, of your whole application, where Functions are just part of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But at the end of the day you may probably want an automated deployment of your Functions or of your whole application, where Functions are just part of it.
```

> It all comes down to deployment of Kubernetes applications on different Kyma runtimes in a GitOps fashion and, for the sake of simplicity, the deployment approach for Functions should not differ from deployment of other Kubernetes workloads, Config Maps or Secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It all comes down to deployment of the Kubernetes applications on different Kyma runtimes in a GitOps fashion. For the sake of simplicity, the deployment approach for Functions should not differ from deployment of the other Kubernetes workloads, Config Maps or Secrets.
```

Use `--dry-run` option of the `kyma apply function` command to generate Kubernetes manifests that will include the Function CR itself but also all the related CRs (i.e. Api Rules, Subscriptions, etc).

```bash
kyma apply function --dry-run --ci -o yaml > my-function.yaml
```  

The generated manifest should be part of all the manifests that define your application and pushed to the git repository.
Deploy everything in a consistent way either via CI/CD or via GitOps operators (e.g. [fluxcd](./svls-06-sync-function-with-gitops.md) installed on your Kyma runtime.

>>NOTE: Source the Function code directly from git repository
Kyma Functions come in two types: `git` and `inline`.
[Git type](./svls-02-create-git-function.md) allows you to configure a git repository as a source of your Function code instead of creating it `inline`.
This allows you to skip rendering of the Kubernetes manifests and deploying them each time you made a change in the Function code or dependencies. Simply push the changes to the referenced git repository and the Serverless controller will rebuild the Function that is deployed in your Kyma runtime. 

> Please have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can setup your git project. Mind  the `k8s resources` folder with the yaml manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server ( e.g. via kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps ) and `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the git repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can set up your git project. Mind  the `k8s resources` folder with the yaml manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server ( for example using kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps ) and `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the git repository.  
```

All of that can be easily managed using the following best practices for the Function development. You will find hints that will be helpful for you at any stage of your development journey.

# Use UI to explore

At the beginning of your Kyma journey you will probably want to evaluate Serverless and draft a few Functions.
Kyma Dashboard is perfect to gain basic experience and start the journey with Kyma Functions. The Dashboard consists of UI components dedicated to Serverless that will help you draft your first Functions by putting the code directly in the browser using Web IDE.

> Kyma Dashboard will also help you expose your Function via HTTP, define environment variables, subscribe to Cloud Events, bind Service Instances and even show you the Function logs - all in one place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma Dashboard will also help you expose your Function using HTTP, define environment variables, subscribe to Cloud Events, bind Service Instances, and even show you the Function logs - all in one place.
```

Get started with [Function UI](./svls-01-create-inline-function.md)

![function-ui](./assets/svls-function-ui.png)

# Use Kyma CLI for better development experience

> Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy but it might be not enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. The ability to code your Function from your favorite IDE or being able to run and debug the Function on your local machine before actually deploying in the Kyma runtime - Those aspects may be desired especially if you want to code and test more complex cases. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end having deployable artefacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in a form of a workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy but it might not be enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. To code and test more complex cases, you may want to write your Function in your favorite IDE or run and debug the Function on your local machine, before actually deploying in Kyma runtime. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end, having deployable artefacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in a form of a workspace. 
```

Initialize a scaffold for a brand new Function using the `kyma init function` command or fetch the current state of an existing Function deployed in your Kyma runtime using `kyma sync function`.

> Focus on the Function code and develop it from you favorite IDE. Configure your Functions directly in the [`config.yaml` manifest file](../../05-technical-reference/svls-06-function-configuration-file.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Focus on the Function code and develop it from your favorite IDE. Configure your Functions directly in the [`config.yaml` manifest file](../../05-technical-reference/svls-06-function-configuration-file.md)
```

>>NOTE: Use `kyma init function --vscode` to generate json schema which can be used in VSCode for autocompletion.
>>

> Kyma CLI helps you run your code locally with a single `kyma run function` command. You can run your Function using your local Docker daemon with the same runtime Docker context as if it was run in the Kyma runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma CLI helps you run your code locally with a single `kyma run function` command. You can run your Function using your local Docker daemon with the same runtime Docker context, as if it was run in Kyma runtime. 
```

>>NOTE: Use `kyma run function` with `--hot-deploy` and spare yourself unnecessary restarts of the Functions whenever you test a changed Function logic. Also, use [`--debug` option](./svls-05-debug-function.md) to allow connecting with your favorite debugger.
>>

![kyma-cli-functions](./assets/svls-kyma-cli-functions.png)

> Having written and tested your Function locally, simply deploy it to the Kyma runtime with the `kyma apply function` command, used in the folder of your Function's workspace. It will read the files, translate it to the Kubernetes manifests and deploy the Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having written and tested your Function locally, simply deploy it to the Kyma runtime with the `kyma apply function` command, used in the folder of your Function's workspace. It will read the files, translate it to the Kubernetes manifests, and deploy the Function.
```

# Deploy via CI/CD

Kyma UI helps you get started. Kyma CLI helps you iterate and develop Functions. 

> But at the end of the day you may probably want an automated deployment of your application, where Functions are just part of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But at the end of the day you may want an automated deployment of your application, where Functions are just part of it.
```

It all comes down to deployment of the Kubernetes applications on different Kyma runtimes in a GitOps fashion. For the sake of simplicity, the deployment approach for Functions should not differ from deployment of the other Kubernetes workloads, Config Maps or Secrets.

So in the end what you need is those yaml manifests for everything - including Functions.

Fortunately, Kyma CLI helps you generate the yaml mainfests matching your `config.yaml` file crafted before.
Use `--dry-run` option of the `kyma apply function` command to generate Kubernetes manifests that will include the Function CR itself but also all the related CRs (i.e. Api Rules, Subscriptions, etc).

```bash
kyma apply function --dry-run --ci -o yaml > my-function.yaml
```  

> The generated manifest should be part of all the manifests that define your application and pushed to the git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated manifest should be a part of all the manifests that define your application and pushed to the git repository.
```

> Deploy everything in a consistent way either via CI/CD or via GitOps operators (e.g. [fluxcd](./svls-06-sync-function-with-gitops.md) installed on your Kyma runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy everything in a consistent way either using CI/CD or GitOps operators (e.g. [fluxcd](./svls-06-sync-function-with-gitops.md)) installed on your Kyma runtime.
```

> >>NOTE: Source the Function code directly from git repository

Reviewer: Please fix the formatting.

Author: done

Kyma Functions come in two types: `git` and `inline`.
[Git type](./svls-02-create-git-function.md) allows you to configure a git repository as a source of your Function code instead of creating it `inline`.
This allows you to skip rendering of the Kubernetes manifests and deploying them each time you made a change in the Function code or dependencies. Simply push the changes to the referenced git repository and the Serverless controller will rebuild the Function that is deployed in your Kyma runtime. 

> Please have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can set up your git project. Mind  the `k8s resources` folder with the yaml manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server (for example using kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps) and `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the git repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can set up your git project. Mind the `k8s resources` folder with the yaml manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server (for example using kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps) and `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the git repository.  
```

>>

> 

Reviewer: Please delete the additional lines.

Author: done
